[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: That's not the only
place that we can use events.
What about our init function?
Or manually calling that init
function from inside of our our app?
>> Kyle Simpson: What if we took
window.event, I actually didn't even need
to put that in the jQuery thing cuz
it's not related to the DOM at all.
What if we took this code that's
inside of document.ready and
instead of calling header.init and
carousel.init or whatever.
What if we just published an event that
people could listen to like, for example,
EVT.emit(init), it's a good event name.
Now I have absolutely no idea what
other modules are on the page.
I don't care if they're there or not.
I'm just gonna throw out the event.
And inside of each one of my modules,
I don't even
need this method to be
on a public API anymore.
I can leave it there just for simplicity,
but it's not even needed anymore.
Inside of this code,
not inside of my init but
inside of my module instantiation,
I just need to listen for the init event.
EVT.on(init), and what function do I call?
The init function.
>> Kyle Simpson: One
little minute detail here.
Now that app.js is creating this variable
that the other modules need to know about,
app.js definitely needs to be the thing to
load before the other modules load, okay.
So small little detail here,
we need to make sure to move app.js up so
that it loads and
runs before the other modules.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's test my work,
let's see if I got it correct.
>> Kyle Simpson: Question,
EVT is kind of a Reactive programming?
[SOUND] Reactive programming means
a whole other umbrella of stuff,
it's event based programming.
It's called event driven architecture or
event oriented architecture.
Events are like a small little part
of what Reactive programming means.
So there's a very, very small tenuous
relationship between the two.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
my code still works but
now it's using events instead
of being directly called.
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's my last thing
I'm gonna finish up and then we're done.
I want to show you the power
of using these events.
Let's open up,
>> Kyle Simpson: One
of those details files,
let's open up 2.HTML for example.
2.HTML, down here at the bottom
I'm going to create a link,
>> Kyle Simpson: Doesn't link to anything
specific.
It's a link, I'm gonna give it a rel
cuz I'm gonna need to listen for,
>> Kyle Simpson: So that's my link that
I'm gonna create.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now this is
clearly carousel related so
let's go into the carousel.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's set up a click
handler for links that look like that.
I'll just simply say,
I'm sorry not carousel,
details related, I meant details.
This is the details module so
inside of init here,
we're going to listen for
any click from the content
that bubbles up to us from
rel equals js-select,
did I call it select person?
Yep, select person.
>> Kyle Simpson: From an element
that has that rel attribute and
we wanna do something with it.
Guess what we wanna do with it?
>> Speaker 2: Build something.
>> Kyle Simpson: Well,
if I've selected a person
the question is do I wanna load that
person so could I call loadPerson here?
The problem with calling loadPerson here
is that loadPerson expects an ID and
that ID hasn't been parsed out yet, okay.
So let's have it call another function.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm not using
good creative names here, but
I'll just call it selectPerson for now.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now his job is to, I
meant to put one other thing in the HTML,
we need an ID here to let us know
what thing it is that we're clicking.
I could put the ID directly
into the rel attribute and
then do a little parsing thing.
I'm just gonna do it even simpler
by adding a data attribute like
data-person equals, and
let's say we want to load person four.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, evt.target,
>> Kyle Simpson: Is
the actual thing that got clicked and it
has an attribute on it called data-person.
And the value there is the ID that
we want to load, so that's ID.
Everybody following me or
am I going too quick?
We're parsing out the ID from
an attribute on a link that was clicked.
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
we could call loadPerson with that ID.
>> Kyle Simpson: Everybody following that?
One last detail, we gotta put in
those preventDefault things so
don't wanna forget that.
>> Kyle Simpson: But I'm gonna make
the argument that even this code,
even though we're calling to
our own internal function.
I think this code is perhaps
a little bit less than ideal.
I'm gonna make the argument
that what we ought to do is
evt.emit,
>> Kyle Simpson: Did I
call it select-person?
I can't remember.
>> Kyle Simpson: Person-select, I'm sorry.
>> Kyle Simpson: I should probably spend
more time not rushing through coming up
with better names.
All right so
the event name was called person-selected,
and it needed a piece of data.
Now, is that event going to
end up calling loadPerson?
Of course it is cuz we have
that event handler set up.
But I'm doing it indirectly.
Now why would I do it indirectly?
Well, what if there was another thing
on the page that wanted to listen to
this event?
Like for example the carousel.
What if we wanted the carousel to
listen for an event like that.
And scroll the carousel to the person
that was picked and highlight them.
If we called load person here that would
not accomplish it and we'd have to
end up calling out or sending out some
other event or calling out to carousel.
But if we use the event system here,
we don't have to worry about that detail.
We allow somebody else to observe
that event if they care or
not observe the event if they don't care.
>> Kyle Simpson: What I'm getting at here
is that I have intentionally created this
layer of abstraction.
And sometimes layers of
abstraction are more confusing.
This does take a little bit
more brainpower from you to
think the event's gonna go here,
and I gotta listen for it here.
It's not as obvious,
the direct connections.
But I'm arguing that there's
a bigger point at stake.
This is perhaps slightly
less obvious code but
it's significantly better organized code.
Because it's more flexible,
it's more testable, it's less brittle.
If for some reason the carousel module
doesn't exist on your page, there's no
reason why the details module can't
continue to act the way it should act.
That's the point I'm making.
Let me test myself to make sure
I didn't mess something up.
>> Kyle Simpson: I think I need to,
sometimes it's hard to
get full refreshes here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Am I
clicking the wrong guy?
>> Kyle Simpson: 2.html should
be that person number three
>> Kyle Simpson: Sorry, just a moment.
I'm trying to figure out how to get
my browser to stop using its cache.
>> Speaker 2: You need to have refresh
>> Kyle Simpson: There we go.
All right so
I have this select another person link.
And when I click it, we're expecting
it to load up a different person.
And in fact it did,
it loaded up person five.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now I didn't do the extra
work of having it select the carousel or
whatever.
In fact, in the read me you'll see
I've left that as some extra credit.
So if you want to go further with
the exercise, we've run out of time for
me to do items one and two.
They're pretty easy and you can see how
I did them in the solutions folder.
But the major stuff is
the stuff that we got to,
which is this organization through events.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so
we're gonna wrap up now but
I want to just leave one last space for
any last question.
So let me check the chat room,
if anyone here as a question speak up.
>> Kyle Simpson: The question was can you
explain again why app.js must come first.
App.js creates an object, window.EVT.
I don't even need window.EVT here now,
I can just do var.EVT.
It creates a global object called EVT.
You'll notice that these
modules need it right away.
The very first thing they do when they run
and define themselves is they need it.
So we need to make sure app.js runs first
before the header.js module defines
itself, that's why.
Preserves the native version of
an object to consent and receive events,
RES observers.
>> Kyle Simpson: [LAUGH] That's way far
afield from the thing I'm gonna be able to
cover here, Kevin.
So yeah, it's probably not even my,
yeah, like you mention,
it's probably better for
Jeffard to answer.
But definitely way far afield
from what we want to cover here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
any other questions?
Now I know it's been an overwhelming day
of a lot of heavy material dumped on.
What I just ran you through over the last
seven or eight hours together or
whatever is what I would,
if I were interviewing somebody.
And somebody came to me as
an interview candidate and they said,
I have two years experience in JavaScript.
Then I would expect that person to
easily handle the stuff that I threw at
you today.
So essentially what I'm getting at is I
took some of you from having no JavaScript
experience to an expectation level of
around one to two years of experience.
And that's nearly impossible
to do in a single day.
So if you feel overwhelmed or
if you feel like you missed some stuff or
if you feel like you need to go back
over stuff, it's because you do.
It's because that's totally natural.
We didn't stay at the one
month experience level,
we progressed quite rapidly,
as many of you probably saw.
The goal here is not that you come
away from today already certified,
I'm an expert,
I got two years' experience in one day.
The goal is that you came away with the
right sort of stuff to ask, the right sort
of stuff to study, the right sort of
ways to ask and think about stuff.
And as you unpack this over the next
weeks and months, I want to encourage you
strongly to go back to the exercises
that we went through and try them fresh.
Try them from scratch and see if you can
come up with the same solutions that we
had in the in the solutions folder.
That's really the best way
to solidify the learning.
Go back over your notes and
the stuff that we did and and don't let
this be the last time you see the material
is the point I'm trying to make.